feat: add documentation for redirects and proxies (#295)
nordcraftengine/documentation: docs/09-pages/05-redirects/index.md

---
title: Configure redirects
description: Learn how to set up up a redirect in Nordcraft to redirect users from one URL to another.
---

# Configure redirects

Redirecting or forwarding URLs provides a way of redirecting one URL to another. When a URL that is targeted for redirection is requested, the server will respond with a redirect response, which includes a redirect status code as well as a URL to navigate to. When recieving a redirect response, the browser will navigate to the URL provided. Redirects can be permanent, that can seemingly widens a domain by setting up redirects that handle typos or synonyms, or protect against broken links when changing to a completely new domain. They can also be temporary redirects, that can be used to keep links alive during maintenance.

> To configure a redirect in Nordcraft, either create or select it in the [project sidebar](/the-editor/project-sidebar) in the **Pages** section. A redirect can be created by clicking the [kbd]+[kbd] button in the **Pages** section header. The configuration is divided into two main sections:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Redirects are listed in the [project sidebar](/the-editor/project-sidebar) in the **Pages** section, and select the **Redirect** tab.

Create a redirect by clicking the [kbd]+[kbd] button in the **Pages** section header. You will then see configuration options divided into two main sections:
```

## Source

> The source section defines the URL address that will redirect to another page. The origin of the source is the current app, and the url can be configured to include path and query parameters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The source section defines the URL address that will redirect to another page. In this section you can also configure the URL to include path and query parameters.
```

> ### Source path

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Path
```

Reviewer: I'm changing these headings to match what is in the UI, as I was looking for "Source path"

Author: I did that as well initially, but lint complains about duplicate titles (the "destination" also has a path and query).

- Add path segments by clicking the [kbd]+[kbd] button
- For each path segment, provide a name
- Enable the [kbd]Param[kbd] checkbox to make a path dynamic
- Set a test value for development purposes
- Remove paths using the [kbd]-[kbd] button

> ### Source query

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Query
```

- Add query parameters by clicking the [kbd]+[kbd] button
- For each query segment, provide a name

> - Set a test value for development

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Set a test value for development
```

- Remove parameters using the [kbd]-[kbd] button

::: tip
If you are not familiar with URL structure, check out the [blog post about URLs](https://blog.nordcraft.com/urls-how-do-they-really-work).
:::

> ## Redirect

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Redirect to
```

> The redirect section defines the URL that will be the target of the redirect, and can be configured just like the source.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the **Redirect to** section to defines the URL that will be the target of the redirect, which you can configure using path and query parameters, just like the **Source**.
```

> ### Redirect URL

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### URL
```

Reviewer: I would reorder these sections to be in the same order as in the UI. So put status code above URL in the docs.

Set the origin of the redirect. Type or paste a complete URL including path, query or hash parameters into the input field, and it will arrange it properly given the sections are not already filled.

> ### Redirect state

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Enable and disable the redirect rule
```

> Using the enabled switch input, you can conditionally enable or disable the redirect. This can be used specify what users should get the redirect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the enabled switch input to enable or disable the redirect. You can also conditionally enable or disable the redirect using the [kbd]fx[kbd] button.
```

### Status code

Set the HTTP status code of the redirect. A redirect can be either temporary or permanent, and respond with the proper status code to display that. The supported status codes include:

- 301 Moved permanently
- 302 Found
- 307 Temporary redirect
- 308 Permanent redirect

::: tip

> Check out the [MDN redirections page](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Guides/Redirections) for more information about redirection status codes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Check out the [MDN documentation on redirections](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Guides/Redirections) for more information about using HTTP status codes with redirects.
```

:::

> ### Redirect path

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Path
```

- Add path segments by clicking the [kbd]+[kbd] button
- For each path segment, provide a name
- Remove paths using the [kbd]-[kbd] button

### Redirect query

- Add query parameters by clicking the [kbd]+[kbd] button
- For each query segment, provide a name and a value
- Remove parameters using the [kbd]-[kbd] button

> ### Redirect hash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Hash
```

- 301 Moved permanently
- 302 Found
- 307 Temporary redirect
- 308 Permanent redirect

### URL

Here is where you define the URL you wish to redirect to. Type or paste a complete URL including path, query or hash parameters into the input field, and Nordcraft will arrange it properly given the sections are not already filled.

::: tip
Check out the [MDN documentation on redirections](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Guides/Redirections) for more information about using HTTP status codes with redirects.
:::

### Destination: path

- Add path segments by clicking the [kbd]+[kbd] button
- For each path segment, provide a name
- Remove paths using the [kbd]-[kbd] button

### Destination: query

- Add query parameters by clicking the [kbd]+[kbd] button
- For each query segment, provide a name and a value
- Remove parameters using the [kbd]-[kbd] button

### Hash

Set the hash of the redirect. This can be used to target a specific fragment of the URL, such as a section of the page.

::: info
Redirects are only available on paid plans.

> :::

Author: I would say that the preview should give a pretty good impression of whether or not it is working. What did you have in mind?

> :::

Reviewer: I'm not sure actually, I guess I'm just not used to trusting UIs and want to see it in action.

And I guess because there's no save button either, I'm not confident that what I have done is applied.

> :::

Reviewer: As discussed in the weekly standup today we can just add a sentence or two to explain how you can test using the live preview for both routes and proxies.
